Editor ' s intro : At the SID town hall meeting of February 20 , ( pictured ) briefed on Human Language Technology , i . e . , tools that sort through voice collection and automatically find the most promising nuggets , thereby saving linguists countless hours . What ' s happened with HLT since that time ? In 2011 we deployed HLT Labs to Afghanistan , NSA Georgia , Latin American SCS sites , and NSA Texas . Afghanistan - area targets Afghan Regional Operating Cryptologic Center ( AROCC ) analysts started using HLT Labs to track their targets in April , and when the analytics were successfully used to find new information , the mission was expanded to include international teams . * The Afghanistan deployment boasts some technological firsts associated with cloud computing * * and includes the full suite of analytics with Pashto speech - to - text ( STT ) . Recently French analysts in the ARC were able to find target speakers on new selectors using speaker recognition . Our deployment to NSA Georgia enables us to partner with analysts to assess the performance of our newest STT models : Pashto and Farsi . These languages have limited training data which creates challenges for STT , and we have been focused on finding applications that are beneficial even for these low - resource languages . NSA - Georgia traffic includes noisy VHF collections which seriously degrade analytic performance ; however , analysts can still find target speaker cuts on unknown frequencies . Spanish - speaking targets Spanish is the most mature of our speech - to - text analytics , and has higher keyword - search accuracy than other deployed STT models . We ' ve had great success searching for Spanish keywords at NSA Texas and Latin America SCS sites . For example , in early August anew NSA Texas user applied keyword search the morning after his training to find a previously unreported cut from a drug trafficking target . Likewise , the OIC of one of the Latin American SCS sites recently reported he was able to find foreign intelligence regarding a Cuban official in a fraction of the usual time . His comment : This same example could be used over and over by many that have to go over countless voice cuts to finally dig that gold nugget that will tum into a report . Development work continues The R6 research team is working to add new applications , improve keyword search capability , enhance analytics , add new languages , and refine the user interface . Recently the Summer Camp for Applied Language Exploration ( SCALE ) - - a joint NSA Johns Hopkins University exercise - - investigated new ways to use the results of HLT analytics from existing targets to find new targets . Research is also working closely with the SPIRITFIRE ( voice analytics ) and TransX ( translation , transcription and transliteration ) efforts to ensure HLT Labs capabilities are included in the corporate solution for enterprise deployment in 2012 . More information about HLT Labs is available here . See a related SIDtoday article about HLT here . Notes : * ( ) The international teams were from the Analysis and Research Cell ( ARC ) , Task Force 310 , and Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force ( CJSOTF ) . * * Specifically , the Afghan deployment is the first use of DISTILLERY and CLOUDBASE on a GHOSTMACHINE platform ."
1,"Over the past year , the SID Leadership team has led a number of ongoing activities relating to SID diversity . This subject is very important to SID leadership ; a significant amount of our time has been devoted to diversity discussions and planning . I ' ll update you on what has gone on so far . We continue to engage the SID workforce through a series of diversity town meetings with a number of affinity groups . I have found these town meetings to be very enlightening as many of you have shared your concerns and suggestions on a way forward with me and the SID leadership . We still have two more town meetings to schedule , then I plan to hold regular sessions with focus groups to ensure that the organization is attuned to the ideas and concerns of the workforce . In addition , SID management is mindful of its responsibility for a fair and equal rewards { promotion and awards ) process . We are implementing a pre - dedsional review of the 2005 rewards to allow SID leadership an opportunity to immediately assess and discuss the organization ' s fairness . We are fully committed to an equal and fair process to recognize the performance of SID employees , as we directed in the 2005 Promotion Program Strategic Guidance . We plan to continue these assessments for succeeding promotion / awards cydes , and major career advancement decisions . To assist Dr . Reinsfelder in managing SID ' s diversity activities , I have assigned a permanent staff officer , who will work to harness the ideas and issues of both the workforce and the leadership , to use the ideas and best practices of diversity professionals to coordinate the diversity effort here in SID . Each Deputy Directorate has assigned senior personnel to be responsible for their diversity activities contributing to the greater SID effort . More staff will be considered if the mission of SID diversity so warrants . In addition , we have begun to draft a SID Diversity Concept of Operations ( CONOP ) and a strategy for SID hiring for 2006 . The CONOP is intended to define , then codify , diversity goals and issues within SID and will also describe the activities , roles , responsibilities , and interactions for leading and managing the effort within the organization . The SID 2006 hiring program ensures that , like the rewards process , SID ' s hiring will be fair and equitable , and serve to provide the diversity that ' s so critical for SID ' s workforce . SID has engaged the Agency ' s EEO and Diversity organizations and the Director of Central Intelligence ' s ( DCI ' s ) Diversity Senior Advisory Panel to the Intelligence Community ( DSAPIC ) for guidance to inform our effort . SID representatives attended the 2005 Diversity Summit East to learn best practices in diversity related leadership , management strategies , workforce engagement , and human capital development . As you can see , there is a lot going on in SID to promote diversity . Please continue to look to SID ' s Diversity Home Page for the latest news - - we are working hard to make the web site a good place to go for developments and information . I have said many times that "" taking care of people "" is a top priority . Completing that mission requires that we understand and value diversity . The SID Leadership Team will continue to work at this issue until we are satisfied that we have done all we can to ensure that the entire organization values diversity and operates with fairness . "" SIDtoday articles may not be republished or reposted outside NSANet without the consent of $ 0121 ( DLsid _ comms ) . 
